Fix scenario doc (#367)
tarantool/ansible-cartridge: doc/scenario.md

# Role Scenario

Any Ansible role contains tasks.
It's usually not possible to change set of tasks and tasks sequence. This is not good!

> Sometimes it's needed to add or delete some tasks, execute some in a non-standard order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes we need to run only some subset of tasks, execute tasks in a non-standard order or even add our own tasks.
```

To do this, we grouped tasks in thematic sets, which we called [steps](/doc/steps.md). 
For example, we have default step to deliver package.

Next, we were allowed to choose which steps and in what order to run.

> This is done by specifying a list of step names, which we called scenario.

Reviewer: Let's highlight **step** and **scenario** words here?

# Role Scenario

Any Ansible role contains tasks.
It's usually not possible to change set of tasks and tasks sequence. This is not good!
Sometimes we need to run only some subset of tasks,
execute tasks in a non-standard order or even add our own tasks.

> To do this, we grouped tasks in thematic sets, which we called [steps](/doc/steps.md). 

Reviewer: To do this, we grouped tasks in thematic sets, which we called [steps](/doc/steps.md).

**Let's summarize:**
1. Scenario consists of steps;
2. Step consists of tasks.

## How to specify a scenario?

* Define a **scenario** (list of **steps**):
  ```yaml
  # playbook.yml
      vars:
        cartridge_scenario:
          - step_1
          - step_2
  ```

* Define a **scenario name** (identifier of some previously defined scenario):
  ```yaml
  # playbook.yml
      vars:
        cartridge_scenario_name: my_scenario
  # hosts.yml
  cartridge_custom_scenarios:
    my_scenario:
      - step_1
      - step_2
  ```

  You can use one of pre-defined scenarios (<link>)

## How to combine steps in a scenario?

Generally, you can place steps in any order, but [steps API](/doc/steps.md) must be followed.

What does it mean?

Take a look at the `deliver_package` and `update_package` steps.
They work together:

* `deliver_package` delivers package and set `delivered_package_path` variable;
* `update_package` installs package by `delivered_package_path`.

These steps use `delivered_package_path` variable to communicate with each other.
Each step described here <link> has some facts required for the step work and facts that the step produces.

## Is it possible to add custom steps?

Yes, using ... and ... variables (look at example)...

## Examples

### Writing a scenario using default steps

Imagine, we want to deliver the package on machines and install it.
Let's write a simple scenario:

```yaml
# playbook.yml
    vars:
      cartridge_scenario:
        - deliver_package
        - update_package
```

It looks that we will often use this scenario.
Save it to `cartridge_custom_scenarios` (e.g. in inventory) and then use by name:

```yaml
# hosts.yml
cartridge_custom_scenarios:
  deliver_and_update_package:
    - deliver_package
    - update_package
```

```yaml
# playbook.yml
    vars:
      cartridge_scenario_name: deliver_and_update_package
```

### Rewriting default steps

What if we want to download the package from some repository, but `deliver_package` step only copies the package from the local machine?

It's possible to rewrite default steps.
Create `custom_steps` directory and add `deliver_package.yml` step there:

```yaml
# ./custom_steps/deliver_package.yml

- when:
    - cartridge_package_path is not none
    - inventory_hostname in single_instances_for_each_machine
  tags: cartridge-instances
  block:
    - name: 'Download package'
      get_url:
        url: 'https://some-server/myapp-1.0.0-0.rpm'
        dest: '/tmp'
      register: downloaded_package

    - name: 'Set delivered package path'
      set_fact:
        delivered_package_path: '{{ downloaded_package.dest }}'
```

Import role and specify a path to `custom_steps` directory in `cartridge_custom_steps_dir` variable:

```yaml
# deploy_application.yml

- name: Deploy application
  hosts: all
  vars:
    cartridge_custom_steps_dir: "./custom_steps"
  roles:
    - tarantool.cartridge
```

Note, that:
* `single_instances_for_each_machine` <link> fact is used to download package once for each machine;
* `delivered_package_path` fact is set to respect API <link>;
* previously defined `deliver_and_update_package` scenario will use our custom `deliver_package`;

### Adding custom steps

...

## Importing steps from different directories

...

## Rolling update example

...

## Pre-defined scenarios

There are the role scenarios (scenario with `default` name is used by default):
- `default`:
  - [deliver_package](/doc/steps.md#deliver_package)

It's usually not possible to change set of tasks and tasks sequence.
This is not good! Sometimes we need to run only some subset of tasks,
execute tasks in a non-standard order or even add our own tasks.

To do this, we grouped tasks in thematic sets, which we called [steps](/doc/steps.md). 
Steps can be combined in list of **steps**, which we called **scenario**.

**Let's summarize:**
1. Scenario consists of steps;
2. Step consists of tasks.

## How to specify a scenario?

### Define a **scenario** (list of **steps**):

```yaml
# playbook.yml
vars:
  cartridge_scenario:
    - step_1
    - step_2
```

### Define a **scenario name** (identifier of some previously defined scenario):

```yaml
# hosts.yml
cartridge_custom_scenarios:
  my_scenario:
    - step_1
    - step_2
# playbook.yml
vars:
  cartridge_scenario_name: my_scenario
```

You can use one of [pre-defined scenarios](#pre-defined-scenarios).
Also you can find more detailed example [here](#add-a-custom-scenario-to-gradually-update-to-a-new-version-of-TGZ)

## How to combine steps in a scenario?

Generally, you can place steps in any order,
but [steps API](/doc/steps.md) must be followed.

What does it mean?

> Take a look at the `deliver_package` and `update_package` steps.

Reviewer: Add links to steps description to take a look by links =)

They work together:

* `deliver_package` delivers package and set `delivered_package_path` variable;
* `update_package` installs package by `delivered_package_path`.

These steps use `delivered_package_path` variable to communicate with each other.

> Each step described [here](/doc/steps.md) has some facts required

Reviewer: has some facts -> has the description of facts?

for the step work and facts that the step produces.

## Is it possible to add custom steps?

> Yes, to replace the steps of the role with your own or add new steps,

Reviewer: Yes, it's possible to add custom steps or rewrite the existing ones.
One of ... and ... options should be used.

(see [example](#importing-steps-from-different-directories)).

## Pre-defined scenarios

### Scenario `default`

This scenario is used by default.
It contains a complete set of steps for deploying the application.

Steps:

- [deliver_package](/doc/steps.md#deliver_package)
- [update_package](/doc/steps.md#update_package)
- [update_instance](/doc/steps.md#update_instance)
- [configure_instance](/doc/steps.md#configure_instance)
- [restart_instance](/doc/steps.md#restart_instance)
- [wait_instance_started](/doc/steps.md#wait_instance_started)
- [connect_to_membership](/doc/steps.md#connect_to_membership)
- [edit_topology](/doc/steps.md#edit_topology)
- [cleanup_expelled](/doc/steps.md#cleanup_expelled)
- [configure_auth](/doc/steps.md#configure_auth)
- [upload_app_config](/doc/steps.md#upload_app_config)
- [configure_app_config](/doc/steps.md#configure_app_config)
- [bootstrap_vshard](/doc/steps.md#bootstrap_vshard)
- [configure_failover](/doc/steps.md#configure_failover)
- [wait_members_alive](/doc/steps.md#wait_members_alive)
- [wait_cluster_has_no_issues](/doc/steps.md#wait_cluster_has_no_issues)
- [cleanup](/doc/steps.md#cleanup)

### Scenario `configure_instances`

> 

Reviewer: What about a short description?

- [update_instance](/doc/steps.md#update_instance)
- [configure_instance](/doc/steps.md#configure_instance)
- [restart_instance](/doc/steps.md#restart_instance)
- [wait_instance_started](/doc/steps.md#wait_instance_started)
- [wait_cluster_has_no_issues](/doc/steps.md#wait_cluster_has_no_issues)
- [cleanup](/doc/steps.md#cleanup)

### Scenario `configure_topology`

Steps:

- [connect_to_membership](/doc/steps.md#connect_to_membership)
- [edit_topology](/doc/steps.md#edit_topology)
- [cleanup_expelled](/doc/steps.md#cleanup_expelled)
- [wait_members_alive](/doc/steps.md#wait_members_alive)
- [wait_cluster_has_no_issues](/doc/steps.md#wait_cluster_has_no_issues)
- [cleanup](/doc/steps.md#cleanup)

### Scenario `configure_app`

Steps:

- [configure_auth](/doc/steps.md#configure_auth)
- [configure_app_config](/doc/steps.md#configure_app_config)
- [bootstrap_vshard](/doc/steps.md#bootstrap_vshard)
- [configure_failover](/doc/steps.md#configure_failover)
- [wait_members_alive](/doc/steps.md#wait_members_alive)
- [wait_cluster_has_no_issues](/doc/steps.md#wait_cluster_has_no_issues)
- [cleanup](/doc/steps.md#cleanup)

To add new scenarios or replace the role scenarios with your own,

> you should use `cartridge_custom_scenarios` option.

Reviewer: Link to example?

## Using `tasks_from`

> You can select a step when importing a role.

Reviewer: You can choose a step to run on the role import using `tasks_from` option.

    - tarantool.cartridge
```

Note, that:
* [`single_instances_for_each_machine`](/doc/steps.md#role-facts-descriptions)
  fact is used to download package once for each machine;
* `delivered_package_path` fact is set to respect [API](/doc/steps.md#deliver_package);

> * previously defined `deliver_and_update_package` scenario will use our custom `deliver_package`;

Reviewer: Let's say that `"./custom_steps"` path is relative to playbook path.
